Okay, I want to share a little example here.
This is actually from a client of mine
and what we have is a problem. We're
using a Spring Integration and Spring
Sleuth. Now Spring integration obviously
is for messaging and does a lot of
messaging stuff through different
channels. It's really cool
application. I'm big fan of Spring
Integration and Spring Cloud Sleuth is a
way to do distributed tracing. And what
it does is it will create a trace ID and
that will follow your message as it goes
across multiple hops. So it kind of sets
up like message headers. So when you're
going from one micro service to another
micro service to another micro service
you can get set up these trace IDs, so
you can see a go through the
whole flow, through the system. So really
cool very handy thing to use when you're
dealing with distributed systems.
Now the problem that we were running
into is when we got an exception, what
would happen is the trace ID would get
changed. We get a new trace ID and then
we wouldn't be able to trace back to the
original message flow that caused the
error. Now it was logged in the payload
of that but for rolling up consolidated
logging. We didn't have that visibility
because the trace ID was changing. So let
me show you exactly what's going on here.
But we created a very
simple Spring Boot project to
demonstrate the error to the Spring guys
because that we thought it was and it
could be a bug. And what we had. We'll show you
exactly what we have here. So we have a
Spring Boot application. So no big
mystery there. Just runs the application.
We have a flow configuration. So this is
a configuration class for Spring and
sets up a inbound channel, a task
executor and so that's just going to set
up a small task bull to process messages
off of that. And now we have an
integration channel. And basically he
pulls in the message from the channel.
And now we handle it. And our little
logger here are our handler just
throws a RuntimeException. And what this
is going to do, it's going to cause
Spring Integration to send that message
and down the error Channel. So then down
the default error channel. So this all baseline
Spring or Spring Integration. Now what
we also have as a scheduler. And
basically, this is going to put a
schedule
message on the queue every three seconds.
So it takes that so we got to set up to
every three seconds. So that's going to
go through it and then we set the
logging level on Spring Cloud Sleuth to
trace. So let me run this and I'll show
you what's happening. So now, we're up and
running. Expand that up. So now that
there's our error, I'm going to stop this so
we can go ahead and stop this. And now
here's our trace ID. If I can do a
control F on that, you can see it
getting highlighted inside of IntelliJ.
And over here, we see it's got a
different trace ID and now it changes
once we get into the error handler. So
this is a Spring Sleuth class that's
doing that and it spits, ignoring this
trace ID. It should be carrying it
through and creating a new trace ID. So
you can see what my client was doing
it's wrong. They're rolling this up into
consolidated logging inside a Cabana. And
when you search on this trace ID, you
have no way of getting back to that
trace ID. So what we want is that trace
ID to be consistent now throughout the
application. So we contacted Spring team
on this. I'm going to show you this.
So here's a chain. So we put together
this application up in GitHub to show
the problem with the trace.
And Marcin is a great guy.
First he suggested changing some of the
dependencies that we had. We updated all
that and got up to the latest and
greatest. And you can see here 11:28, he
says it's a bug. He sees the error. Sees
it. Sees it's the bug. And now if we
continue through here. So he says he'll
try to fix it as soon as possible. And he
comes in and has it done 11:55 to what I
say 11:38 to 11:55
so or 11:30
something. So yeah not even a half hour
there to get this turn around. So now, let
me show you the build snapshot. Come back
over here to IntelliJ. And let me just
close this. And come over here to the
POM. I actually commented it out. Now
we're going to the snapshot. You also
have to get the snapshot. You have to put
in the Spring Snapshot library.
You'll go ahead and import the changes. And
now let's go ahead and run the
application again. So it takes a second
for it to start up. And there's our
exceptions. So it might go ahead and stop
this. So now, you can see the error thrown
here. So now if I copy that. Do a Ctrl F
on that. As you can see, in here is where
a section right and here is where it was
changing before but now we can see that
we have the trace ID from the beginning
all the way through. So what this means
now if this is a distributed across
multiple nodes, on multiple microservices,
we do this client in mind does have
Cabana going. So they're doing log
scraping and rolling it up to Cabana, so
it's searchable. So now, they'll be able
to go into Cabana and trace through that
entire thing. So special kudos to the
Spring team. We did a good job here. What
was important for the Spring guys is
that we gave them a project inside of
GitHub and said here's an example of
what we think is wrong. And going into it,
we didn't know if we were doing
something wrong. There's something
that we had to set because we expected
this to work. Turns out that we were
right. And within a half-hour, we had a
patch that we're able to use and move
forward with. So really great turnaround
by the Spring guys really really love
that. So this is just a really good
example here, where you do run into a
problem, to go and properly document them.
Give a good working example of that
problem and then you can get the
Spring guys involved. They're very
responsive. They're very
helpful. We went through a couple initial
troubleshooting. So yeah first up always
is to upgrade to the latest current
releases, which we did. Still experiencing
the problem. We dug a little deeper and
found out yeah there was a problem and
how that was handling. So we should have
been carrying out that trace ID all the
way through. So you have a really great
job from the Spring team. Great support
for the product. So hope you've got a lot
of benefit about this. Spring Integration
is a great product. Spring is
a great product, especially when you're
building distribute apps.